---
aliases: [Wilson-Cowan,]
type: topics
status: open
priority: p4
creationtag: 2022-10-19 14:12
infotags:
---
From [Tutorial 2: Wilson-Cowan Model — Neuromatch Academy: Computational Neuroscience](https://compneuro.neuromatch.io/tutorials/W2D4_DynamicNetworks/student/W2D4_Tutorial2.html)
> A simple, yet powerful model to study the dynamics of two interacting populations of excitatory and inhibitory neurons

Reference paper:
Wilson, H., and Cowan, J. (1972). Excitatory and inhibitory interactions in localized populations of model neurons. _Biophysical Journal_ **12**. doi: [10.1016/S0006-3495(72)86068-5](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0006-3495(72)86068-5).

[Site Unreachable](https://youtube.com/watch?v=GCpQmh45crM)

# Equations
  

Many of the rich dynamics recorded in the brain are generated by the interaction of excitatory and inhibitory subtype neurons. Here, similar to what we did in the previous tutorial, we will model two coupled populations of E and I neurons (**Wilson-Cowan** model). 

We can write two coupled differential equations, each representing the dynamics of the excitatory or inhibitory population:

  

$$\begin{align}

\tau_E \frac{dr_E}{dt} &= -r_E + F_E(w_{EE}r_E -w_{EI}r_I + I^{\text{ext}}_E;a_E,\theta_E)\\

\tau_I \frac{dr_I}{dt} &= -r_I + F_I(w_{IE}r_E -w_{II}r_I + I^{\text{ext}}_I;a_I,\theta_I) \qquad (1)

\end{align}$$
$r_E(t)$ represents the average activation (or firing rate) of the excitatory population at time $t$, and $r_I(t)$ the activation (or firing rate) of the inhibitory population. 

The parameters $\tau_E$ and $\tau_I$ control the timescales of the dynamics of each population. 

Connection strengths are given by: 
$w_{EE}$ (E $\rightarrow$ E), 
$w_{EI}$ (I $\rightarrow$ E), 
$w_{IE}$ (E $\rightarrow$ I), 
and $w_{II}$ (I $\rightarrow$ I). 

The terms $w_{EI}$ and $w_{IE}$ represent connections from inhibitory to excitatory population and vice versa, respectively. The transfer functions (or F-I curves) $F_E(x;a_E,\theta_E)$ and $F_I(x;a_I,\theta_I)$ can be different for the excitatory and the inhibitory populations.


```query 
line:("Wilson-Cowan")
```